# Introduction to React and Components

### what is a component?
>A component is a software object, intended to interact with other components, encapsulating certain functionality or a set of functionalities. It has an obviously defined interface and conforms to a recommended behavior common to all components within an architecture. -https://www.tutorialspoint.com/software_architecture_design/component_based_architecture.htm

The different views of a component are:
1. object-oriented
2. conventional
3. process-related

The different characteristics of components are:
>1. Reusability − Components are usually designed to be reused in different situations in different applications. However, some components may be designed for a specific task.
>2. Replaceable − Components may be freely substituted with other similar components.
>3. Not context specific − Components are designed to operate in different environments and contexts.
>4. Extensible − A component can be extended from existing components to provide new behavior.
>5. Encapsulated − A A component depicts the interfaces, which allow the caller to use its functionality, and do not expose details of the internal processes or any internal variables or state.
>6. Independent − Components are designed to have minimal dependencies on other components. -https://www.tutorialspoint.com/software_architecture_design/component_based_architecture.htm


### What is Props?

>React is a component-based library that divides the UI into little reusable pieces. In some cases, those components need to communicate (send data to each other) and the way to pass data between components is by using props.
“Props” is a special keyword in React, which stands for properties and is being used for passing data from one component to another.
But the important part here is that data with props are being passed in a uni-directional flow. (one way from parent to child)
Furthermore, props data is read-only, which means that data coming from the parent should not be changed by child components. -https://itnext.io/what-is-props-and-how-to-use-it-in-react-da307f500da0#:~:text=%E2%80%9CProps%E2%80%9D%20is%20a%20special%20keyword,way%20from%20parent%20to%20child



## Things I want to know more about
I would like to be more fluent in this as it seems it would speed up processes a lot faster.