# API design best practices

1. What does REST stand for?
>Representational State Transfer

2. REST APIs are designed around a ____.
>REST APIs are designed around resources, which are any kind of object, data, or service that can be accessed by the client.

3. What is an identifer of a resource? Give an example.
>A unique URI such as https://adventure-works.com/orders/1

4. What are the most common HTTP verbs?
>GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, and DELETE.

5. What should the URIs be based on?
>Nouns not verbs

6. What status code does a successful GET request return?
>A successful GET method typically returns HTTP status code 200 (OK). If the resource cannot be found, the method should return 404 (Not Found).

7.  What status code does an unsuccessful GET request return?
>If a POST method creates a new resource, it returns HTTP status code 201 (Created). The URI of the new resource is included in the Location header of the response. The response body contains a representation of the resource.

If the method does some processing but does not create a new resource, the method can return HTTP status code 200 and include the result of the operation in the response body. Alternatively, if there is no result to return, the method can return HTTP status code 204 (No Content) with no response body.

If the client puts invalid data into the request, the server should return HTTP status code 400 (Bad Request). The response body can contain additional information about the error or a link to a URI that provides more details.

8. What status code does a successful POST request return?
>If a PUT method creates a new resource, it returns HTTP status code 201 (Created), as with a POST method. If the method updates an existing resource, it returns either 200 (OK) or 204 (No Content). In some cases, it might not be possible to update an existing resource. In that case, consider returning HTTP status code 409 (Conflict).

Consider implementing bulk HTTP PUT operations that can batch updates to multiple resources in a collection. The PUT request should specify the URI of the collection, and the request body should specify the details of the resources to be modified. This approach can help to reduce chattiness and improve performance.

9. What status code does a successful DELETE request return?
>With a PATCH request, the client sends a set of updates to an existing resource, in the form of a patch document. The server processes the patch document to perform the update. The patch document doesn't describe the whole resource, only a set of changes to apply.
