# python regex

## Basic Patterns: Ordinary Characters

You can easily tackle many basic patterns in Python using ordinary characters. Ordinary characters are the simplest regular expressions. They match themselves exactly and do not have a special meaning in their regular expression syntax.
>pattern = r"Cookie"
    sequence = "Cookie"
    if re.match(pattern, sequence):
        print("Match!")
    else: print("Not a match!")

The match() function returns a match object if the text matches the pattern. Otherwise, it returns None. The re module also contains several other functions, and you will learn some of them later on in the tutorial.

## Wild card characters

1. A period. Matches any single character except the newline character.
2. A caret. Matches the start of the string.
3. A dollar sign. Matches the end of string.
4. brackets with letters inside matches any of those letters
5. a-zA-Z0-9 will match any letters from a to z, A to Z, or 0 to 9
6. \w - Lowercase 'w'. Matches any single letter, digit, or underscore.
7. \W - Uppercase 'W'. Matches any character not part of \w (lowercase w).
8. \s - Lowercase 's'. Matches a single whitespace character like: space, newline, tab, return.
9. \S - Uppercase 'S'. Matches any character not part of \s
10. \d - Lowercase d. Matches decimal digit 0-9.
11. \D - Uppercase d. Matches any character that is not a decimal digit.
12. \t - Lowercase t. Matches tab.
13. \n - Lowercase n. Matches newline.
14. \r - Lowercase r. Matches return.
15. \A - Uppercase a. Matches only at the start of the string. Works across multiple lines as well.
16. \Z - Uppercase z. Matches only at the end of the string.
17. \b - Lowercase b. Matches only the beginning or end of the word.

## Repetitions

1. '+'  Checks if the preceding character appears one or more times starting from that position.
2. '*' Checks if the preceding character appears zero or more times starting from that position.
3. '?' Checks if the preceding character appears exactly zero or one time starting from that position.
